[Woman sobbing]
Help me...
Please...
Help me.
[Branch snaps]
Please, oh, Jesus,
don't let me...
die.
Not like this.
[Crying]
Not like...
You...
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
[Indistinct sound]
[Knocking]
[Cocks weapon]
[Wrenching sound]
Get your barf bags ready,
my creatures,
because these pictures are even
more not pretty than usual.
Clark Howard, till last night,
in Wheeling, West Virginia.
Murder weapon
left on the scene,
Morgan:
Is that barbed wire?
Indeed it is, arranged
to fit like a noose.
How do you wrap that
into a noose?
I guess it's the same way
that porcupines make love.
Very carefully.
Yeah, but the tensile
strength wouldn't allow you
to tie it like rope.
It can if you're
strong enough,
which speaks to
the unsub's physicality.
And the fact that he twisted a head
completely around
speaks more to the unsub's
physicality.
It's a redundancy
in the M.O., isn't it?
The unsub possibly
tried to hang--
Reid: Or decapitate.
Yeah, or decapitate
Clark Howard.
The noose wasn't effective,
so he kills him by hand.
Report says
he's victim number two.
Who's victim number one?
That would be
Matthias Lee.
Mr. Lee was killed
when he was out hunting.
He was caught in a bear trap.
Accident, you say?
I say, no, because
the bear trap was launched
from a makeshift projectile
hidden inside a tree,
and it was also
lined with barbed wire,
which is why Wheeling P.D.
has invited us in.
Well, both victims were hunters,
but the way they were killed,
it looks like the unsub
was hunting them.
And even though
both men were armed
and should have had
the upper hand,
he was skilled enough
to use stealth
and the environment
to surprise them.
And in order to find this unsub,
we're gonna have to do it
on his turf, where
he's got the advantage,
and he's gonna
see us coming.
♪ Criminal Minds 9x20 ♪
Blood Relations
Original Air Date on April 2, 2014
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
♪
Blake: "The past is never dead.
It is not even past."
William Faulkner.
Two murders in two days.
Do the police have any leads
on who would want
these men dead?
They did,
until he was killed.
Wheeling P.D. was circling Clark Howard
for the murder of Matthias Lee.
It's easy to see why.
Looking at their case histories,
both men filed dozens
of harassment and nuisance
lawsuits against each other,
including unfounded claims
of burglary and trespassing.
Then, in 2011, Matthias Lee
filed a civil complaint
against Clark Howard
"to kiss his ass."
Clark Howard responded
with a motion to go...
You can't actually do that
with the male anatomy.
Ok, so maybe this isn't
one unsub, then.
Maybe this is just
tit-for-tat revenge murders.
Sure. Clark Howard uses
the barbed wire
for murder number one,
and then the unsub
gets him back
by hanging him with it
for murder number two.
We need to dig deep in the
family and friends, then.
That's our suspect pool.
They're gonna be reluctant
to talk to federal agents.
It's not like we're very popular
in this neck of the woods.
Blake, you and JJ see who you can
get to come to the table.
Reid, look into where the unsub
or unsubs are getting this barbed wire.
Dave and Morgan, find out
what you can about the victims,
what else they might
have been involved in
that could have
gotten them killed.
I can't quite tell you why those
two boys hated each other,
just that they did.
According to one of
Matthias Lee's restraining orders,
he not only wanted
Clark Howard kept 50 feet away,
but the entire
Howard family.
If the animosity
extends to the families,
how many potential suspects
are we talking about?
It could be all of them.
And it could be
none of them.
Agent Hotchner, we see
this all the time.
A fella hates
another fella,
then a brother
gets involved.
And then a cousin.
You know, they get
convinced that the reason
they can't find work
or can't find a woman
or can't get off of oxys,
'cause of that other family.
So the mom and dad
of the two victims
have agreed
to talk to us.
Who is that?
Cissy Howard, Malachi Lee?
Yes. And Cissy would only
come in on one condition.
She told me if she even smelled
Malachi Lee, she would walk,
and when she asked me what
that specific smell was,
he said,
"dip and beard lice."
Can we arrange to have them
come in separate entrances?
Sure can.
So we'll have Mrs. Howard
at 12:00 and Mr. Lee at 12:30.
Won't that risk them
running into each other?
Exactly.
Cause of death
is straightforward.
Thwack and whack,
respectively.
Did the M.E. mark this
on Clark Howard's hand?
What's that?
Burn marks.
Chemical burns, it looks like.
Yeah. "Victim had burns
on fingers and hands
consistent with lye."
Rossi, they're on Matthias Lee's
hands and wrists, too.
It's almost like
they were splashed on,
as if he was cooking
with it or something.
Intuition tells me
these boys were making meth.
And if they were trying
to make each other's lives miserable,
they probably weren't
just making it.
They were selling it.
Reid: I talked to 3 farmers
who had 3 different strands
of barbed wire stolen.
None of them saw the thief,
but they all swear
it was the same person.
The mountain man.
Should we have Garcia
look into it
as a pseudonym?
I'm thinking maybe
we should hold off on that.
The mountain man seems
to be a confluence
of several local legends.
Some say he's part of the backwoods
Appalachian population,
others say he's a confederate holdout
trying to start a second civil war
to turn brother
against brother,
but the one thing
they all could agree upon
is if you go into
a darkened bathroom
and you chant "I hate
the mountain man" 3 times,
he'll pop up and kill you
the next time you hear
Lynyrd Skynyrd on the radio.
So you're sure the theft from
the farms match the crime scenes?
Yeah. Barbed wire's actually
quite specific
depending on what type
of livestock you're trying to keep in
and what type of rustlers
you're trying to keep out.
In this case, the concertina
formation was exactly what was used
to kill Clark Howard
and Matthias Lee.
Except, we have two murders,
but you talked to 3 farmers.
Yeah. Wire number 3
hasn't been found yet.
That's not good.
No, it is not.
You gonna catch the snicklefritz
that done this to my baby?
Yes, ma'am.
You better.
Tell me, why did Clark
and Matthias hate each other?
Don't rightly know.
Some bad blood.
"I wouldn't put him out
if he was on fire.
But I might light
a cigarette off him."
These are your son's words
when he was questioned.
And my words to him were,
Clark, if you so much
as hurt a hair on
Matthias Lee's head,
I will smite you
like Jeroboam.
You don't even know
who that is, do you?
Second Kings,
old testament.
He followed in succession
after King David.
God killed his son,
his wife, and ultimately him.
So, you got some book learnin'.
Well, good for you.
Don't mean you got the sense
to catch my boy's killer.
'Cause I can tell you think
I'm lyin' to you.
Well, let me tell you
something, Mr. FBI man.
My son is innocent
of harming that Lee boy.
'Cause his words
to them cops,
those were the words
of stupidity and bravado.
But my words to him...
In my family,
under my roof,
my word is law.
Now, we done?
Mr. Lee, please.
All right, will you
answer one question?
Who do you think is
behind Matthias' murder?
Mrs. Jareau--
Agent Jareau.
It's Mrs. Jareau.
Unless that ring
on your finger
is some kind of lesbian thing.
I know how you all
like to do it up there in D.C.
You see, this here
is a family matter.
And we would appreciate it
if the federal government
just back off.
[Text message tone]
Ok.
You're free to go.
I'll escort you
out of the station.
[Elevator bell dings]
Oh, hold the elevator.
Where are you parked,
Mr. Lee?
Malachi?
P2.
You visit your daddy's
grave recently?
You visit yours?
Per my sweet JJ's request,
I have combed through the lives
of the Lee and Howard fathers.
Now, going backwards,
there's nothing particularly compelling
about either of their graves,
but, holy cow,
everything before it is.
So, gather around
the campfire, my friends,
'cause this one
is quite the story.
Ok, so the family forefathers,
Carl Howard and Munroe Lee,
specifically,
grew up in the Wheeling area
circa prohibition time.
And they were competing
moonshine runners.
Which started
a family feud.
Did it ever.
An exceptionally bloody one.
Cousins, spouses, children.
No one was spared.
Reid: How long
did the violence last?
Until the passage
of the 21st amendment.
Once firewater became legal, they lost
their bloodthirstiness-ness.
Blake: Until Clark Matthias
brought it back.
The new underground market brought
back old rivalries to the surface.
It's only a matter of time before
the Howards attack the Lees again.
I mean, they were basically
announcing it to us in the elevator.
We've got to find a way
to defuse the situation
or these families will
tear each other apart.
That's excellent.
That is excellent.
And on behalf of my father,
I want to thank you
for doing business with us.
[Laughing]
Well, I know you have
your choices for product
in the Wheeling area,
so the fact that you're favoring us--
[engine starting,
woman screaming]
Maddie!
[Engine revving]
[Screaming]
[Tires squealing]
Oh, please! [Sobbing]
Oh, please! Oh, God!
[Sobbing, screaming]
Aah!
No!
Why aren't you people
stopping this?
We're trying to, but--
But what?!
They killed my wife!
Ok. It's all right.
You know, it's obviously
the Howards that are doing this.
Why? What's going on
between the two families?
That's none of your
damn business.
It is now.
Is it crystal meth?
Ohh. I see. Of course.
So we're just a bunch of
dumb West Virginia hicks.
We must be cooking meth.
I tell you what.
You search my house
and you search
my bank account
and you come back
and tell me that I'm dealing drugs.
I thought you were
smarter than that.
JJ...
Bad?
Yeah.
Head taken clean off.
And we found the third piece
of barbed wire
that Reid reported stolen.
It doesn't mean
this is over.
We profiled a series
of retaliatory attacks.
Right now it's Howards two,
Lees, one.
Hotch.
Mrs. Howard.
Heard through the grapevine
you're looking for an old Monte Carlo.
You know someone
who drives a car like that?
I know someone who don't.
Here's a copy of every vehicle registered
in the Howard family name.
That's all well and good,
Mrs. Howard,
but when someone's
this eager to prove their innocence,
it makes us wonder.
Well, it's true enough.
There's no love lost between
the Howards and the Lees.
But we would never hurt
a woman who did nothing
but raising her babies.
We didn't do this,
agent Hotchner.
You'll see.
My men are all here.
We're ready for your profile.
We need a little more time.
[Sobbing] Oh, mama.
Mama...Help...
Ok, if we hit the reset
button on the profile,
what do we have?
Well, the behavior
points to one obvious theory.
Revenge murders stoking
the fire of a family feud.
With the forensic evidence
to back it up.
Physical evidence
of methamphetamine production.
The only problem is every time
we dig a little deeper
into the families,
that theory falls apart.
The Howards are certainly
doing everything they can
to prove this isn't
about revenge for them.
But the unsub want the families
to think that it is.
What if it's an outsider like you
would see in the drug cartel model?
One supplier eliminates
two major competitors
by getting them
to fight with each other.
Except what are they
fighting over?
Miles Lee made a good point
when I questioned him.
There is nothing in his home
or bank account
to indicate he was a dealer.
Garcia: Ready, ready.
So Garcia and I
dug a little deeper. Take it away.
I did some peeking
into both the Lee and Howard
online shopping activity.
Here's what I found.
In addition to lye,
they bought--are you ready?
Sodium hydroxide,
methanol,
mixing beakers,
digital scales,
safety glasses,
gloves, aprons--
All of which
you need for meth.
But the arrest record in the community
told a different story.
Neither the Howards nor the Lees
are even tangentially involved.
Garcia, where were
the purchases shipped?
Uh, the Howards
spread them out.
The other side just sent them
to one address, Malachi Lee's farm.
We don't have a profile until we know
what the family business is.
Let's go get some answers.
Thanks, Garcia.
[Gunfire]
Show me your hands!
Don't shoot!
On your knees! Now!
Don't shoot. You gonna
blow us all sky high.
We comin' out.
Put down the weapons.
Put 'em down!
I'm the one who opened
fire, not my kids.
You didn't say
who you were.
We thought
you was the Howards.
We're FBI. How's that?
It's still private property.
You're trespassin'.
You need a warrant.
You can't go in there.
Couldn't agree with you more.
There's no ventilation.
If they were cooking
meth in here,
they'd all be dead
from the fumes.
So what exactly
are they cooking?
It smells like cooking oil.
More like used cooking oil.
Waste runoff collected
by restaurants
and just thrown out
like garbage.
I think I might know
what they're up to.
I started reading
about biofuel,
where you take a clean-burning
waste product like used cooking oil
and you turn it into
an ethanol gas.
I know the conversion
method's similar to meth.
Yeah, but,
only this stuff is legal.
And believe it or not,
it's way more profitable.
Dave, wait!
Why didn't you tell us
this is what you were selling?
'Cause if the outsiders knew
how much money we were making,
we'd become targets.
You already are.
Guys, I'm a little worried
I wasted my time
being an expert in my field,
because this biofuel thing
has a massive payout.
How much money
are we talking about?
We're talking in the hundreds
of millions of dollars.
So, it turns out
the Lee and Howard families
took all of their old moonshine
and other suspicious
manufacturing infrastructure
to create highly efficient
conversion methods.
Only now they're both
in the process of selling them.
To whom?
To a West Virginia company
that wants total control
of the biofuel market in the state.
Well, if our profile
is right,
someone didn't want
to deal to go through.
Maybe the sellers are sabotaging it
to drive down the price.
Yeah, but there are easier ways
to do that than resorting to murder.
Someone in the community, then?
Malachi kept it a secret because
he didn't want outsiders to know.
The Howards would behave
with the same self-interest.
Only family members
would know.
It doesn't make sense.
If the unsub's a family member,
he's blowing his
one big chance to get rich.
Unless he were frozen
out of the deal.
Garcia, run the names on the
contracts against both family trees.
Done.
Anybody excluded?
There's a distant cousin
on the Howard side--
Caleb. Black sheep.
In and out of jail
for larceny.
Stealing from farms,
specifically.
Where is he now?
No known address.
It's a good bet Cissy knows.
We should pay her a visit.
Well, before you do,
you should know that Caleb
is on an FBI watchlist.
Apparently, he was part of
an underground organization
that wanted the, quote,
"real south to secede
from the false south."
End quote. Last reported
seen deep in the Appalachian woods.
Oh, my God.
The mountain man.
The legend Reid heard
from the farmers.
According to them, he was part of
the Appalachian population
and he wanted to start
a second civil war.
They were describing
the unsub and we didn't realize it.
I believe in the God
of mercy,
in the God of compassion.
But that's not
the God I need right now.
I am praying
to the God of Vengeance.
The God of Anger.
The God of locusts
and boils and floods.
Someone is hurting
my family, God.
And I need your power
to help me smite my enemy.
[Glass shatters]
Thank you.
[Creaking]
Oh, I got you,
you son of a bitch.
Her car's still here,
but she isn't.
Between this and the break-in,
the unsub must
have come for her.
He's never kidnapped
a victim before.
Why didn't he kill her
on the spot?
Especially considering
she pulled the trigger.
This wasn't a surprise
like the previous murder.
She was ready for him.
It didn't do any good.
He still took her.
But to where?
[Cell phone rings]
Go ahead, Garcia.
I just made a one step forward,
two step braha kind of discovery.
Caleb Howard is on the radar,
just under a different name.
Sam Caplan.
And, my friends,
he is not the mountain man
anymore.
[Kids chattering]
Excuse me, I'm looking
for Sam Caplan.
Uh, who's asking?
The same people who'd like
to talk to Caleb Howard.
Who are you?
What do you want?
Why do you have me here?
Is this about money?
I'll give you money.
You just name your price.
I don't want your money.
What do you want?
I want you to say hello.
To who?
To you?
To her.
Well, do you recognize her?
That's my mama.
I was the mountain man.
I mean, I had joined
every movement
to the right of the klan,
but that's not me anymore.
Can you account for your
whereabouts the past week?
Oh, yeah. One of my kids
is on a suicide watch,
so I've actually been
sleeping in the building.
I had my phone
pre-dialed to 911
just in case of emergency,
and I butt-dialed it once or twice.
You're more than welcome
to run the record if you'd like.
I'm more curious why you
go by Sam Caplan now.
Well, when I was younger,
one of the reasons
I would rob a farm
or get drunk
or join one of those
stupid causes
was because I thought
that's just what Howards did, you know?
You raise hell
and ask questions later.
I think it was because
I didn't like myself very much.
You don't have to change
your name for a fresh start.
In this town, you do.
In this town, family
is--is destiny, and,
well, I was embarrassed
by mine.
This whole time, my team thought
you were disowned by your family,
but I guess it was
the other way around.
Yes, ma'am, that's right.
Uh, one more thing.
We're trying to find
your aunt Cissy.
Do you have any idea
where she might be?
None.
Do you remember the last time
you talked to her?
Yeah. Right before
I took her advice
and signed the papers
to become Sam Caplan.
She made the suggestion.
Cissy Howard married
into the Howard family, right?
But what was it that she said
to Malachi in the elevators?
You visit your daddy's
grave recently?
You visit yours?
We thought that was in
reference to the family feud.
But she wasn't born
into the family or their feud.
Exactly. And Garcia couldn't
find any documentation for this woman.
She invented herself
40 years ago.
Now, add in that she gave
her nephew the idea to change his name,
and her middle name
is Magdalene...
Magdalene Lee,
Malachi's sister.
Went missing almost
50 years ago, presumed dead.
Now it all makes sense.
"You visit your daddy's grave recently?"
"You visit yours?"
It's the same dad.
That woman raised me
from a baby.
She fed me,
she clothed me,
she taught me how to hunt.
She's real lovely.
Yeah, she was smart.
She kept me away
from other people
'cause she knew
they wouldn't understand.
Then I started asking questions.
How come I don't look
like the others, mama?
How come I don't look like you?
And while her body was wasting
away from the cancer...
She told me...
About a deal she made.
About a deal she made
out here in these woods.
You?
Yeah.
Now, I'm going to decide
whether you live
or die.
But that depends
on how much you confess.
What it must have been like
to see your sister
in the elevator after all this time.
What's it been, 50 years?
And you never
ran into her in town?
No, I did not.
Once she run off,
she was dead in my folks' eyes.
Why'd she leave?
Or was she forced out?
Well, I don't think
that's really your business.
No, but it is my business,
when your children
are dying
and I seem to care
more about stopping it than you do.
You don't tell me
that you care more
about my kids than I do,
you understand that?
I just lost my son.
Then help me.
Why did she leave?
She got in a family way.
She shamed my folks.
How old was she?
She was 16.
But girls in your family
have conceived younger.
Why was it shameful?
It was your child.
Wasn't it?
I didn't--
I didn't force her
or nothin'.
We was kids.
She loved me.
And I loved her.
Anybody else
in the family know?
No.
What happened
to the child?
[Sighs]
There was this shack.
We used to go there when...
We wanted to sin.
Am I right?
And this is the place.
This is where
I was conceived?
Yeah. That's right.
Thought nobody's
catch you, didn't you?
My mama did.
You liked her
looking at you.
You liked it,
didn't you, whore?
But she knew.
You can't cheat
the laws of God
and the laws of nature
forever.
When did you know
about me?
What if we tell
mama and daddy?
They'll kill us.
They'll kill us both.
Adult Cissy: You gotta
understand, we were young.
So we come up
with a plan.
It wasn't a good plan.
But it was the best
two teenagers could do.
You'd keep the baby.
Yeah.
Oh, my God!
It hurts so bad!
Am I dying?
Ohh...
Something's wrong.
[Sobbing]
I can't stay here
for this.
Where are you going?!
Malachi! Come back here!
[Groaning]
[Sound of crying fading]
And you ran.
Yes, I did.
I ran.
I ran like a coward.
Please...
Help me.
Someone help me.
Oh, God.
Oh, God...
You.
I had no money.
I had no resources.
I wasn't ready
to be a mother.
But she was.
So she said
she'd help me.
[Screaming]
We made a deal.
She'd keep my secret...
[Screaming]
[Baby crying]
And she got to keep him.
After I gave you up,
I rambled the state for 2, 3 years.
Then I heard one of the Howard
boys was looking for a wife.
So I put myself
where he could see me.
I never told him what I'd done,
where I'd come from.
Once he made a decent
woman out of me,
I prayed to God
for a fresh start.
And he gave it to me.
No!
No, no,
no!
We ain't done with me yet.
On the night I was born...
Did you name me?
No.
Did you kiss me good-bye?
Did you even hold me?
Did you?!
Yes.
[Baby cooing]
Please...
Just let me look at him.
Oh...
My...
Oh--my sweet Jesus, he's--
[baby crying]
He's...
What's wrong with him?
He's perfect.
[Baby crying]
You never even
thought about me, did you?
I tried not to.
But I knew.
I knew I would pay before my maker
for what I'd done.
You were right.
No!
You said if I told you
the truth--
I said I'd decide.
And I have.
I'm gonna send you
to hell myself.
The shack Malachi described
fits the geographic profile
of the unsub's hunting zone.
What are we walking into?
We've already been shot at
by the locals once.
According to Garcia, the
census counter out there
encountered an Appalachian
woman living in a cabin,
but she refused to give
any information.
The woman must have raised
the unsub out there.
That's how he knows the area so well.
It's his backyard.
That's exactly where he would
have taken Cissy.
Wait. Wait...
For what?
You kill me here,
they'll find you.
They'll know
everything you did.
Why would you help me?
'Cause I need to pay
for my sins.
But I want you to live.
Uhh!
Man down! Man down!
Fall back!
[Dog barking]
Bloodhound has the scent.
Ok. We gotta split up.
We can cover more ground. Let's go.
I have eyes on Cissy.
He's got her
rigged to a tree.
Morgan: Do not approach.
She could be bait.
I'm on my way.
Blake!
Blake?!
Blake, can you hear me?!
Blake!
[Gasping]
Start shooting!
Where?!
Everywhere!
Where's the body?
Where is he?
This is SSA Rossi
with the BAU.
We need to drag the lake.
[Sighs]
How you doing?
My hair smells like
a dirty sock.
But...other than that
I'm fine.
Ok.
How are you doing?
I just--I couldn't breathe.
We put 30 bullets
into that water.
Ok.
He's dead, Alex.
He's dead.
We can still press charges
against Malachi Lee.
He opened fire
on federal agents.
My humble opinion--
it's a waste of time.
A jury of his peers
don't take kindly
to government attacks
on their homes.
You talk to the families?
We explained how Malachi was
instrumental in the recovery of Cissy.
Only that just raised more uncomfortable
questions than we could answer.
I would not want to be
that poor son of a gun
for all the money
in the world.
Magdalene...
It should have been me
he killed.
It should have been
us both.
[Elevator door opens]
Something you two
want to tell us?
Where did you find
this place?
Well, believe it or not,
my parents used to bring us here
when we were kids.
Your parents?
They brought you here?
Yeah.
This place is certainly
out of the way.
You are gonna love it.
No one is gonna bother us.
No phones. No Internet.
No dry cleaning,
no takeout.
No calls from your boss.
Good point.
You need to wait.
Oh, no, no, no.
Come on.
Oh, this is worth
waiting for.
[Laughs]
[Indistinct sound]
Sandy?
Sandy.
[Water running]
Sandy?
[Faucet squeaks]
Aah!
Oh, my God.
What is wrong with you?
What's wrong with me?
What's wrong with you?
What are you doing?
You're so sexy
when you're scared.
Well, uh, you're sexy
when you--
[screaming]
You have 3 seconds
to give me the keys to your car.
3...
2...
1.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org